幸福课 中英字幕 [第19课]如何让爱情天长地久
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: Hi.Good afternoon.Good morning.
Today we are going to continue talking about love.
But before,if there is a Nadia in this room,
and you left a key chain in class.
We have it here.
So please come and see me afterwards.
So let's talk about love.
Last time,we left off with more questions than answers.
The question was- difficult question was
"how can we sustain love?
How can we sustain passion beyond the honeymoon phase?"
Because even if we did have our Brad Pitt or Halle Berry,
that does not guarantee lasting passion.
In fact,what we know that does guarantee over time
is a waning of the physiological excitement that
we experience when we are with that person.
And that in part explains some of the statistics,
such as 2/3 of marriages end up in divorce,
such as even those who do stay together
after a while it's out of convenience,
out of a sense of duty and not always,
or more often than not
does not have the same sense of togetherness of passion
that existed at the beginning of the relationship
with all the good intentions and the hope of the life-long
committed relationship- marriage or otherwise.
And then we asked "what positive psychology can do for us?"
We asked the additional question to the normal question
that has been asked for many years,
which is "why do so many relationships fail?"
It's an important question.It's necessary.
It's very far from being sufficient.
And it leads to the same errors,
to the same shortcomings that asking only the negative question
leads to when we are studying at risk youth,
when we are studying time management and stress.
Because when we only ask one of the questions,
what we are missing are the children on the bus,
metaphorically speaking.
What we are missing are the colors in the reality in front us,
if the only question we focus on is
"how many geometric shapes are there?" Questions create reality.
And very often,if we don't certain question,
certain answers are obscure and disappear.
So we ask this question
and we ask not just about "what makes relationships work",
but "what makes relationships thrive?"
And psychologists such as David Schnarch and John Gottman
in their extraordinary books,
extraordinary research talk about some of these characteristics.
So let's get into them.
The first one is about working hard.
This is the world's best kept secret.It's the secret of success.
It's the secret of personal success,of successful relationships.
There are no short cuts-
if we want a relationship to thrive,to succeed,
we need to put a lot of work in it.
Now that seems self-evident,obvious common sense.
But so often in this class we have seen
what Voltaire has remarked,"common sense is not that common."
Now why is common sense not that common?
When it applies to working hard in a relationship.
The reason is because
many people have wrong expectations of the relationship
or of what it means to have happy relationships specifically.
Most people believe that the most important part
of enjoying a happy life-long committed relationship
is finding the right partner.
And that's certainly important,
but it is a mistake to focus on finding.
People have- if we draw an analogy to Carol Dweck's research
on fixed versus malleable mindset-
people have a finding mindset that hurts the relationship.
Let me explain.
So going back- we did this before spring break.
What Carol Dweck showed was
when we praise people for their intelligence-
"oh you are so smart"-
after doing well on the test,they enter the fixed mindset.
Versus if we praise them for "oh you've worked so hard".
They have a malleable mindset.And that has consequences.
Because the fixed mindset-
the intelligence- "you are so smart" doesn't help them much.
And then when they go to the next puzzle,
next task which is difficult,that threatens their schema-
"oh if I don't get it,if I don't succeed,
it means I'm no longer smart." And they give up more easily.
They are more threatened by failure.
And they don't enjoy the process.
They become perfectionists,
or more likely to become perfectionists.
OK,so this is the fixed mindset.
You are so smart.You are so intelligent.
The malleable mindset- "oh you work so hard".
Oh I can work with that.
So even if I don't succeed,don't do well,
I can still learn and I do learn to enjoy the process more.
So that's the malleable mindset.
Now let's draw an analogy to what we've just discussed here.
If I believe that the most important thing
about enjoying life-long,committed,
happy relationship is finding the right partner,
I enter what I call- again by analogy,the finding mindset,
which will be an equivalent to Dweck's fixed mindset.
And then let's say I have this mindset.
This is the most important thing.
And then we go through a rough patch in our relationship.
Then what happens? Then I begin to think "wait a minute.
Something's wrong here.I must have not found the right partner.
I must have made a mistake- an error of judgment."
And that very often leads to a worsening of the situation.
And it can,doesn't always,but can lead to a downward spiral.
This is the finding mindset.
Because it's fixed I found my knight in shining armor.
I found my dream woman.I found my Brad Pitt,my Halle Berry.
And you know that problem is that reality inevitably hits.
We can't run away from it.
And reality dictates that there are no perfect relationships.
Remember that Leo Buscaglia's quote about,
"perfect love is rare indeed."
No it's not rare.It doesn't exist.
And when we realize that-
if we have the finding mindset,the fixed mindset,
it threatens our schema.
There is inconsistency and then we begin to think
"well I probably did not find the right person."
In contrast,if we have the cultivating mindset,that's malleable
That's related to the effort part- "OK.
So we are going through a hardship.
We are going through difficulty.
But it's OK.Because we are working on it.
We are working to resolve it."
It's like the students who were praised for their effort- "OK.
So I'm not solving this puzzle now.
But so what? I'm putting in a lot of effort.
I'm trying; I'm even enjoying the process."
Look at the direct parallel here between Dweck's work
on mindset and our mindset when it comes to relationships.
So important- it makes such big difference.
And very often we can switch it-
not immediately,relatively promptly.
Remember Carol Dweck was able to change mindset of people
in a single experiment,in a few hours.
And we can do the same in our relationship
if we truly accept and internalize the fact
that relationships or finding the right partner,
a good partner is of course important.
It is much more important to then cultivate that relationship.
We'll get to that in a minute.
But the question then arises:
so why do people have the finding mindset?
Why do people have or not have the cultivating mindset?
If it is healthier.
One of the main reasons are the movies.Now movies are wonderful.
They are terrific.They show us what is possible.
Aristotle once said about art that it's -or about fiction-
that it's more important than history,
because history depicts things as they are,
whereas fiction depicts things as they can and ought to be.
So it's a wonderful thing;
it shows us some model of what's possible,
especially the romantic movies.
I don't mean romantic in terms of love,
romantic in the 18th,19th centuries sense of romantic,
showing us how things can work,how things can become,
the potential,human nature relationships of our world.
So it's a wonderful thing.
But one thing that movies don't do well is that
they focus on the finding of the right partner,
and hence very often entrench,reinforce the finding mindset.
Because most of the movies,
love stories look like this: there are struggles;
there are fights; there are disagreements;
there are challenges on the way.
And then at the end,
Mr and Mrs Smith get together and they live happily ever after.
The screen drops and they walk into the sunset.
You know what problem is with that picture?
The problem is that movies end where love begins.
It is after the screen drops that the actual work starts.
It is easy to have a good relationship at the beginning,
the honey moon phase
or you know through the first year or two usually.
But then what happens after a while
when the initial physical,physiological instinct wanes?
What happens when we start to recognize and understand
and realize and see that- well this partner is not perfect.
What happens then? Well,that's when true love begins.
And that's where true love is cultivated and formed.
Now I'm not belittling the importance of finding a partner,
the right partner,the right person for us.
It is of course important.
And often it takes kissing many frogs before we find our prince.
But the more important part of a thriving long term relationship
is the cultivation.
This is where the effort starts.
It's after the sunset; the difficulties and hardships rise.
Now connect it to this,to the mindset is the notion
that there is only one right person for us.
And all I need to do,all I need to dedicate all my effort
and time to is find that right person.
And if I have to go all the way to Yale
I'll go there to find that person.
A modern version of a Shakespeare in tragedy perhaps.
Whatever I need to do I will do it-
just to find that one right person-
even if I'm in Boston,they are in Seattle.
I will find that right person.
I don't believe that.It's simply not true.
It's not the matter of faith.
I mean we know many people
who thought they found the right person,
maybe did find the right person,
and then either for tragic reasons
or for good reasons they were no longer together.
And they found more love.
There are 6 billion people in the world.
There's more than one right person.
So what makes relationship unique?
It's not finding that one right person.
Once again it's cultivating that one chosen relationship.
It's by virtue of working together,of being together,
of spending time together,of dedicating one another.
That's how we create the one chosen relationship,
one special relationship.
That's how two separate "I"s become a "we".
And again to do that,it doesn't happen over night.
It doesn't even happen in a year or two.It takes time.
In fact,it doesn't happen; it is happening.It's a process.
It's not about success in a relationship;
it's about succeeding in a relationship.
We cultivated relationship not just simply by putting on the ring
or by giving the vows.
It's by doing things together.
Why is that so important?
Let me draw on some research from other areas of psychology.
And this is something that I mentioned on a couple of occasions.
Some of the most important work done by Muzafer Sherif
back in the 1950s,and until Muzafer Sherif came along.
As I mentioned before,the hypothesis that people had
when it comes to resolving interpersonal conflicts
or inter-group conflicts,
the belief that people had was that
all you need to do is get the conflicting sides together.
The dominant hypothesis was what's called "contact hypothesis".
Get the two conflicting sides in touch with one another
whether it's conflicting ethnic groups,
whether it's conflicting individuals.
Get them together and you will resolve the conflict.
This was much of the work done by Gordon Allport
in our department here back in the 1930s.
Muzafer Sherif comes along and shows that that's not the case.
In fact,just bringing them together,
just the contact of the conflicting sides very often,more often
than not intensifies the conflict rather than resolve it.
And I gave this in a context of Arabic-Israelis conflict,
where people just got together
and hope that there will be peace in our time.
And instead we got more war in our time.Contact is not enough.
Not when it comes to bringing nations together;
not when it comes to bringing ethnic groups together;
and not when it comes to bringing a couple together.
You see in a relationship,inevitably there are conflicts.
Inevitably.There is no perfect relationship.
And if there were perfect relationship,
it would not be a conflict-free relationship,
as we'll see shortly.
So there are conflicts in our relationship-
whether it's during the first year
or whether it's after two or three years.
And serious conflicts- I'm not just saying about you know,
conflict about "well you should put down the toilet seat"
or "keep it up".
I mean serious conflicts.Well that could be serious I guess.
But other serious conflicts.
And when there is a conflict,
and all the couples are doing together,simply being together,
in touch with one another-
that's not enough to resolve that conflict.
And very often it will start as a minor conflict
and then get worse- spiral up,or rather spiral down over time.
So what does Sherif say and what do we know today?
That the important thing in resolving conflicts
is having a super ordinate goal.
When the two ethnic groups,when the two nations work together,
and are inter-dependent-
whether it's in business,or in a relationship,
it could be raising children- but doing the things together,
or belonging to the same political campaign,
or opposite political campaigns- that's fine.
291
But working together,
supporting one another and when you have the working together,
the doing together,
that's when you are most likely to resolve the conflicts.
And in fact these conflicts as we'll see shortly
can make the relationship even stronger.
But the couple need mutually meaningful goals.
And again,it could be having children together
and raising the children together.
You know not just the "OK.We had the child.
And then the mother or the father raise the kid-
more often the mother."
And OK.So we did something together.No.
The kid has to be to put in a very delicate and-
I'm sure appropriate terms- the kid has to be a joint venture.
Isn't it a lovely term to describe having kids?
As long as they don't bring any bad debt
or you know there is a good return on investment.
Yeah,just the right language there.
Took me a while to think about it.
So working together,bringing up the kids together,
or being on campaigns together,
or helping one another at work but doing things together.
John Gottman: "In the strongest marriages,
husband and wife share a deep sense of meaning.
They don't just "get along"-
they also support each other's hopes and aspirations
and build a sense of purpose into their lives together."
That doesn't mean that they have to do everything together.
I mean it's OK
for one to have his or her own meaningful goals at work,
where they don't work together- that's perfectly fine.
But in addition there have to be things that are done together.
In other words,what we need is an active kind of love.
You know the first time I really understood
the meaning the active love was through a story that Shahar
who's one of my best friends in Israel told me.
We were in the same class,
but he got married at a relatively young age.
It was in his early 20s and had his first kid soon after.
And he is very introspective,
very honest,high levels of integrity.
And he told me at the beginning when he had Noam,
when Noam came home from hospital with his wife,his mom,
Shahar didn't really feel love toward Noam.
He was very cute and adorable.
But he didn't feel a strong sense of love that
he thought he should have felt.
Needless to say he felt enormously guilty about it.
That didn't last for long fortunately.
Because as soon as Shahar started to taking care,
started taking care of Noam which meant changing his diapers,
which meant getting up in middle of the night and feeding him,
which meant taking him for walks,which meant cleaning after him-
that's when the love was cultivated.
That's when he started to feel a deep sense of fatherhood
for the first time.
So it wasn't natural.
For some people it is natural- for women more often,
but not always,more often than men.
So we can rely on and wait for this natural thing to happen
or we can actively engage in activities
that show and illustrate our love.
Remember self-perception theory?
We very often form theories and beliefs about ourselves
based on how we behave.
So examples we used in the past:
00:22:46,240 --&gt; 00:22:50,170
if I see myself going up to someone and ask them out,
even if they say no,I perceive myself as someone with confidence
And my self-esteem will go up,regardless of the response.
If I see myself trying out for plays,
I will perceive myself as someone courageous.
If I perceive myself as...
If if I take care of myself,I'll see myself
as someone with self-esteem who cares about him or herself.
So the same with children.
If I see myself taking care of my child,
my conclusion in self-perception theory
is "oh I must love that child".
And that love actually intensifies over time,
whether it's with children,whether it's with partners.
We may experience the love automatically at the beginning;
it could be the love at the first sight.
However,if we don't sustain the active love,
over time because of self-perception theory,
over time that will go away.
Because I don't invest anything in a relationship,
self-perception theory-
"oh it must not be that important for you."
And then the love wanes- not to mention
all the physiological reasons why it wanes over time.
So if there isn't the active love,it cannot be sustained.
How do we sustain love? How do we remain active?
Realtionship rituals.You know we talked about the rituals.
I told you about the rituals that
my wife and I had usually- have,two days a week,
meals with the whole family additional at least.
Once a week,usually it's three or four times a week.
But we have these rituals.
Because without rituals,in our modern world,
the important yet not urgent in the words of Steven Covey,
the important and yet not urgent activities will take a backseat.
So yeah we know it's important to go on dates.
But it's not as urgent as phone call I just receive from work
and I have to wait or stay at work,whereas if there is a ritual,
if we do it no matter what then it will sustain itself.
The second way and extremely important way of sustaining love
is making that shift
from desire to be validated to the desire to be known.
This advice that I got from David Schnarch
in his book "Passionate Marriage"-
this single advice
has quite literally transformed my relationships,
whether it's my romantic relationship with my wife
or my relationship with my friends,
family members as well as students.
And I mention this before,and I want to go more in depth here.
Because it is so crucial for sustaining passion,
00:26:00,270 --&gt; 00:26:06,170
for sustaining friendship,for sustaining happiness.
Individual- intrapersonal as well as inter-personal happiness.
So what does that mean?
00:26:14,320 --&gt; 00:26:17,500
What is being known rather than being validated mean?
First of all one thing that David Schnarch and others have shown
is that if we want to sustain passion beyond the honeymoon phase,
beyond the time when it's automatic,
what we need to do is form deeper levels of intimacy.
And couples- again now we are studying couples
who have been together for 20,30,40 years
and still have a passionate relationship.
Couples who do that,the tip of the stem unfortunately,
but couples who do that,
have cultivated and continue to cultivate-
not find- cultivate intimacy throughout their lives.
And how do you cultivate intimacy?
By getting to know one another more and more,
more deeply,more meaningfully.
00:27:06,050 --&gt; 00:27:07,790
By understanding one another,
by getting to know one another as we know ourselves.
And that means that if we are up to be known by the other partner
that means we must open up.
That means we must reveal.
That means we need to share of ourselves-
not just the wonderful and the amazing and the terrific things
that we share on the first date.That too.
But in addition,
also the things that sometimes we are not that proud of.
Our weaknesses perhaps.
Some of the things that maybe we are ashamed of,
that we don't feel very comfortable...
That no one knows about us.
Now that does not happen on the first date-
it shouldn't happened on the first date.
Very often it doesn't happen after 5 or 10  years.
It happens gradually over time as trust increases,
and reveal more and more...
Sometimes we reveal things about ourselves
that we didn't even know that existed;
that we repressed or suppressed over time.
But it takes time,
which is why going back to David Schnarch's quote
about cellulite and sexual potential,
that usually happens after age 10,20,30 years,
which is why at the age of 50 and 60,
there is even better sexual potential
than at the age of 18 or 20 or 30.
Doesn't mean it can't be great at 18,20 and 30,
but it can be even greater.Why?
Because deeper levels of intimacy,deeper level of connectedness.
A lot of look forward to,
if we understand what is the nature of passionate relationship.
It cannot just rely on "well we came together;
I found my princess/prince charming and we'll live happily after"
No,it means also taking risks at times.
It means revealing over time our deepest desires,
our deepest fantasies,
our greatest strengths as well as our weaknesses,
our insecurities and our passions.
That is what it means to be revealed,to open up,to share.
What it means is that
a healthy relationship is about expressing ourselves
rather than trying to constantly impress.
This is the difference between being known-
express versus being validated- let me impress her;
let me impress him; let me impress them.
The thing about this is that- yes,
it is more risky to open up,to express ourselves.
Because what if she doesn't like me?
What if he doesn't like what he finds out about me?
But you see when we express,
we are more likely to have a thriving relationship-
it's not guaranteed by any stretch of imagination.
It's not guaranteed.
However if we just impress,we are guaranteed failure.
Here is why.
First of all,when we express,generally,over time,
maybe not in the short term,but over time,
people will be more attracted to us,-
specifically my partner will like me even more over time
because of our deeper levels of intimacy,
even they sometimes find out things that
they don't necessarily like or adore or appreciate.
Over time it's people who are genuine,
who will attract other people and-
by the way this applies in the realm of –
of course- interpersonal relationships.
It applies in the realm of friendships.
And it applies in the realm of leadership- the greatest leaders,
as Peter Drucker has illustrated,
are not the people who are the most charismatic.
They are not the people who are the most engaging.
They are the people who have the highest levels of integrity.
These are the leaders
whom followers follow over time in a long term.
So whether it's interpersonal group relationships
or individual relationships,
when we express ourselves,we are much more likely to thrive.
The second thing though is,that's important to keep in mind,
is that let's say I impress and I do such a good job of it
that the other person or the other group actually likes me.
It worked.I won.
Well,have I? Who do they really like?
Do they like me or do they like that image,
that facade that I put on.
In other words,it's not me that they really like.
And it may look like it.But it's pretense.
It's make-believe.It's not the real thing.In other words,I lose.
And it certainly cannot sustain itself over time.
So we have more likelihood of succeeding when we express;
and zero likelihood of succeeding in the long term
when our primary objective is impress.
Now this does not mean going on first date
and not trying to impress.
I mean I've not met anyone
who has not tried to impress on the first date or the 10th,
or after 10 years- that's OK.However,
what is the primary motivator in our time being together?
Just like we reveal,we open up,we share,
we also need to get and make active effort
to get to know our partner,to know what their favorite wine is,
what their favorite flowers are;
where they like to be tickled,where they like to be touched;
what are their fears,what are their desires;
when is it a good time to maybe give their own space,
when is it a good time to talk to them,
when is it a good time to touch them.
And all these things take time.
It doesn't happen on the first date.
It doesn't happen in the first year.
And it doesn't all happen in the first ten years,or thirty years
That's what it means to create a lifelong thriving relationship
that we get to know the other person throughout our lives.
My grandfather and grandmother,my role models,
when it comes to relationships,
got to know each other deeper and better after 50 years as well.
They did thrive; they were thriving.
They did not succeed; they were succeeding,growing together.
David Schnarch:
"Intimacy is about letting yourself really be known,
including parts that you or your partner don't like.
But it's not just about letting 'warts' be known.
It often involves showing strengths you've been hiding,too.
Most approaches
focus on getting your partner's validation and acceptance
when you disclose.
But you can't count on this,and if you try,
it inherently limits self-disclosure
because you won't say things your partner won't validate.
Resolving gridlock requires intimacy
based on validating yourself."
Many,if not most,couples counselors,sex therapists believe
that the most important thing in a relationship,
in a healthy long relationship is that
the partners validate one another.
And that is important.
Of course I want to be validated by my partner.
Of course I validate my partner.
However,that's not the foundation of a healthy relationship.
And this is where most therapists,
most couples are and this is where I was wrong-
not understanding the foundation is to be known,
whether it's in a romantic relationship
or a relationship with friends.
You see when you disclose,when you disclose,
you are taking a risk.
And very often,
it leads to a conflict,a disagreement,disease in a relationship
However usually,not always,
but usually-that is a temporary disease.
On the other hand,
if you disclose over time and you open up and you share,
that's when you lead to long lasting,
positive consequences to the relationship.
So on the one hand,when you disclose,
it's uncomfortable by definition.
If it's comfortable,then it wouldn't be hard,
wouldn't be real disclose.
It's difficult in the short term,
but in a long term,it leads to growth.
So the question is what do you want?
Do you want a temporary feeling-good?-
Oh you are validated; you are wonderful.
Let me impress and show you how terrific I am.
Because it feels good to be validated.
Or are you looking for long-term thriving
interpersonal friendships or romantic relationships?
That is the question.
Now I said earlier and I spoke about it a couple of months ago
and I want to repeat it:
how it changed my relationship with my students,
how it changed,transformed my teaching.
Because when I started to teach,my main goal-
whether it was explicit and at the time,it was explicit,
but mostly,on the subconscious level was to be validated.
I really wanted my students to like me.
That was my primary goal,my primary objective.
Over time,as David Schnarch specifically
as well as looking other people's work
such as Parker Palmer's "The courage to Teach",
my objective changed to be known.
This is my mantra now.
Everyday before I stand here and talk to you,
every single day I think about and read my mantra.
In fact on the first page of my notes-
these are my notes,my cheat sheet.
On the top- "be known".Every day.
To be known rather than to be validated-
that transforms my relationship with my students
and my teaching for various reasons.
First of all,it's so stressful enervating to think constantly
"I have to impress whether it's with my romantic partner
or you know,650 or 1000 students".
It's difficult.There's a lot of pressure there.
It is much easier to stand up here and say "OK.
What I want the students to do is to get to know me better."
And that means to get to know the field that
I'm so passionate and so caring about.
I want them to know me better.So I feel so much lighter about it.
I feel so much lighter about it in my interaction with Tammy,
when it's about being known rather than impressing,
rather than being validated.
That's the first important thing.
The second thing about trying to impress constantly is
if we put on a fa?ade and act and then I tried- tried-
if I want to be validated constantly,to seem perfect
so that the students really like me and approve of me.
But then what I'm doing is that I'm hurting the students as well.
Because if I'm good at it,if I'm good at putting on a fa?ade
and depicting this perfect teacher,
I'm being a terrible role model,
which in the long term will only hurt the students.
Because that thing doesn't exist.
And if anyone is inspired to this perfection,
whether in a relationship,whether on the individual level,
it is inevitably a prescription for perfectionism
hence for failure,hence for unhappiness.
Or if I'm here to be known,
which means my weaknesses,my failures-
whether it's my failure in Cambridge,my failure here,
whether it's the anxiety,then you'll see a real person-
whether it's the mistakes,you'll see a real person.
And that's a much better teacher,
much more accessible I hope than the fa?ade,
perfect to thereabout to be validated.
And again,beyond the fact,it is so much fun for me being here.
Because what I'm doing now is sharing with you.
I'm sharing my part of self with you.
And I'm sharing the field that
I'm so passionate about and care about so much.
To be known,to be known rather than to be validated.
Easier said than done.
But the benefits,especially the long term benefits are immense.
Absolutely immense.
The third point is about allowing for conflict in a relationship.
You see one of the misunderstandings about healthy relationships
is that those relationships don't have conflict- they don't fight
The gold standard is a conflict free relationship.
And that's a serious misunderstanding.
John Gottman has done a lot of work in this area.
One of the things that he showed was that
there is not one right relationship.
And that also means different relationships look differently
from outside or from the inside.
Some relationships thrive and they are very quiet.
Some relationships thrive and are extremely volatile.
Both can succeed.
There is no one right form of relationship.
There are numerous permutations and variations on this.
But there is one right relationship,
one thing that Gottman has found
is that in all those relationships-
whether they are volatile or very peaceful and quiet,
or somewhere in between,they all have conflicts.
And on average- again this is average,
because you know it can be 10 to 1.
It can also be 3 to 1.
But on average,
they have 1 conflict for each 5 positive interactions.
Now it doesn't mean now going home and telling your partner,
"you know we've already had 7 good interactions.
Let's fight."
Certainly not that.But that is what he's seen,
when he studied hundreds,thousands of thriving couples.
That was more or less
the average of conflict per positive interaction.
This statistics by the way helped me a lot.
Because whenever Tammy and I used to fight,-
and yes we do fight at times,I used to say,"oh,what's wrong?"
Versus "now it's OK.It's natural.
Let's see how we can resolve it,
what we can learn from it,how we can grow from it."
It doesn't mean I enjoy it,that we seek conflict.
It's awful.And sometimes it hurts very deeply.
But at the same time to understand it's natural.
And just like we give ourselves the permission
to be human on an individual level,
it's important that
we give our relationship the permission to be human and humane.
People who have that 5 to 1 ratio,
again more or less usually have the thriving relationship.
People who have a lot less than 1 to 5 ratio,meaning 100 to 1,
the relationship in the long term does not thrive,nor do people
who have many more conflicts than positive interactions.
So neither extremes are good.
The importance of conflict is that it immunizes us.
Let's look at the natural or physiological level of immunity.
What would happen to a person,
just born and put into a oxygen tank not- which is sterilized-
and not taken out of that sterilized oxygen tank?
What would happen if say after 2 years,or 3 years,or 10 years,
that baby,now no longer a baby
is taken out of that perfect surrounding into the real world?
That person is very likely to get ill.
Very likely to get seriously ill.
Why? Because it's not healthy to be in a sterilized environment
on the physiological level.
Because every time you get ill,
or every time you are exposed to pollutions or bacteria,
your body actually strengthens.
The same in a relationship.
If you are not exposed to conflicting relationship,
over time,over time the relationship will not strengthen.
You'll be weak;it'll be unable to sustain
the inevitable conflict that will arise.
So conflict immunizes us.It is important.
And we'll talk about in what ways or what the conflict looks like
Because not every conflict is healthy.
The key that Gottman talks about
is not to take away or eliminate the negative,
but rather to accentuate,to strengthen the positive.
So in relationships that
don't thrive where there's too much fighting,-
relationships that are here.
Just accentuate the positive.
If you are here and there are no conflicts,well that means
maybe we are suppressing things- emotions,disagreements.
In other words,we are not being known and we need to move on,
and reveal ourselves,open up and share.
Here are some ways of accentuating the positive.
So you remember in the book of,on,in "Happier",
I talk about happiness boosters.
These are mini activities-
could be anywhere from a minute to 3 hours of doing things
are both meaningful and pleasurable to us.
So just like we have happiness boosters
that can have a trickle effect for the rest of our lives.
We can also have love boosters.
There is a story about Albert Einstein and Ludwig van der Rohe.
Ludwig van der Rohe was one of the founders of quantum physics.
And when Ludwig van der Rohe wrote Einstein a letter
saying to him "you know I want to introduce you
to this new fascinating field of quantum physics.
I want your support."
Einstein was a big shot at the time.
Einstein responded with a letter.
And in the letter said to Ludwig van der Rohe:
"I'm not interested in quantum physics.
What I'm not interested are...I'm not interested in the details.
What I am interested in is what God thought about
when He created the world.
I'm not interested in the details.
I am interested in is what God thought about
when He created the world."-
to which Ludwig van der Rohe wrote back,
saying,"God is in the details."
The same with love.Love is in the details.
Love is not in that one week or two months
around the world cruise;
love is not in that 5 carat diamond ring.
Yes these things are wonderful;
they are certainly to a spike in well being,
sometimes to a spike in love,
but they are not what sustains a happy relationship.
What sustains a happy relationship are the details.
The little things.
The day to day rituals,the touch,the gaze,the meal together.
Mini love boosters also sustain.
I got this idea from Peter Fraenkel
who is From the Ackerman Family Center in New York.
And what he talks about are 30 seconds pleasure points
throughout the day,
whether it's a passionate kiss,
whether it's just a hug where you just hold one another,
whether it's just sending a text message to your partner
saying how much you love them and miss them- the little things.
And what they found
was these little things made the big difference.
Again,yes,the big things also make a difference.
I'm not belittling them.But that just leads to a spike.
To sustain happiness it takes time,and it takes work.
It takes commitment.
A relationship is made extraordinary
by focusing on these details on day to day activities.
And how we do that? We demonstrate interest,
by asking "so how is your day sweetheart",
or "tell me more about what you have just done",
or "what have you been thinking",
or you know "you look a little bit down- anything I can do".
Demonstrate interest.Create love maps.
Get to know the other person- what they like;
what they don't like; and how they like it.
Again,the little things such as touching,
such as smiling,such as flowers,
such as remembering the important dates,men.
Today is much easier.
You know we have the computer reminding us- have many reminders.
Talking from personal experience.
Pay compliments.Pay compliments to your partners.
You know don't take for granted.
Remember the word appreciate- two meanings.
To pay compliment to someone- oh you look wonderful;
oh this is so great- thank you so much for doing;
thank you for thinking of me.
Paying compliments- appreciating makes the good appreciates.
When we don't appreciate,when we don't pay compliments,
the good depreciates.
Mark Twain: "I can live for two months on a good compliment."
Don't take him literally though.
Let me share with you a story.
This is my father in law and his wife.
My father in law is a graduate at Harvard law school-
very bright,very smart and married to- his name is Amie.
Married to a lovely woman Rachel- Rahel(Hebrew pronunciation).
And they went on a date.
Rahel- Rachel was wearing a beautiful dress.
And they walked into a party and they spent a whole night.
And there were so many people.It was a lovely evening.
And at the end of the evening,they went back home.
And Rachel asked Amie,
you know she said,"Amie,you know the whole night,
after getting compliments about how wonderful I look,
how ravishing the dress is,how radiant I look,
I got it from everyone except for from you."
Now remember Amie is a Harvard law graduate-
very smart,very quick on his feet.
One of the leading lawyers in Israel.So he said,
"Rahel- Rachel,do you remember when a couple of months ago,
I told you how beautiful,how gorgeous you were?"
And she said,"yes.Of course I remember."
He said,"well until further notice,you are beautiful."
Now.[Laugh] Now that almost worked.
The problem was Rahel- Rachel is also a lawyer.
Very bright.Very successful.
And she said to him,
"Amie,sweetheart,until further notice,you are on the couch."
So don't wait.Don't wait to be asked to give compliments.
855
Give it.It's free.
And yet though it's free,
in the ultimate currency it is invaluable.Invaluable.
Because we get so much out of it-
the giver as well as the receiver.
You know the No.1 predictor of therapeutic relationships
the No.1 predictor of the success of therapist,
of psychologist or social worker or psychiatrist is empathy.
How well you are able to understand,to empathize,
to identify with your client.
It's no different in romantic relationships.
Do I really listen to my partner? Do I really look at my partner?
00:53:11,300 --&gt; 00:53:13,900
Do I demonstrate genuine interest
in what my partner is doing,feeling? And how they are?
Do I really really want to get to know them?
Because if we don't have that,
it is very difficult to sustain a long term thriving relationship
And finally,sex is important for long term thriving relationship
It does not have to come before marriage;
does not have to come before there is a life long commitment-
marriage or other.
It can; it often does in our world.
And either way is fine- either choice.
However,for the long term success of the relationship,
it is also important to have the physical aspect.
It's very rare- it exists-
but it's very rare to a romantic relationship
without the physical component.
Cause that's one of the distinguishing characteristics
between that and a deep friendship,for example.
Love at its- or rather sex at its highest is love made concrete.
Love made concrete.
That is why we talk about making love.
It's the concretization of the emotion,of that abstract notion.
The important thing here is,
as every other areas of the relationship,healthy communication.
Because very often we reveal ourselves,we share of ourselves
in the bedroom more than in any other place,
whether it's physically or emotionally or cognitively.
That's where we open up.
That's when we are literally metaphorically naked.
And communication is important
because very often there are differences in expectations.
And there is no one right prescription here-
OK,you know sex 5 times a week,the best relationships;
3,not bad; 1,OK.
No,there are fantastic relationships where it's you know,
once a day or twice a month- sorry,or once a week.
There are wonderful relationship...[Laugh]
Or there is every day 3 times.
No.There is no one right prescription.
I don't know what I said was funny,
but I'll have to watch it after
because I'm sure Freud is watching now.
And the important thing is to communicate.
Because it is a source of conflict.
It is a potential source of conflict.
It doesn't have to be.
Let me show you a quick video
just to get the attention off me for a minute.
From Woody Allen.
[Movie: Annie Hall (1977)- subtitles on the screen]
That day in Brooklyn was the last day
I remember having a good time.
We never have any laughs anymore.
I've been moody and dissatisfied.
How often do you sleep together? Do you have sex often?
Hardly ever.Maybe three times a week.
Constantly.I'd say three times a week.
Like the other night,Alvy wanted to have sex.
She would not sleep with me the other night,you know?
I don't know.
I mean Six months ago I would have done it just to please him.
I tried everything.
I put on soft music and my red light bulb.
But the thing is since our discussions here,
I feel I have a right to my own feelings.
I think you would have been happy,
because I really asserted myself.
The incredible thing about it is,
I'm paying for her analysis and she's making progress,
and I'm getting screwed.
I don't know.
I feel so guilty,because Alvy is paying for it.
So you know I do feel guilty if I don't go to bed with him.
But if I do go to bed with him,
it's like I'm going against my own feelings.
-I'm not making any progress.  -I can't win.
Sometimes I think I should live with a woman.
Dr.Tal Ben-Shahar: So hardly ever- 3 times a week.
Constantly- 3 times a week.Again,different perceptions.
Communication is important.Not any conflict is good.
There is positive as well as negative conflict.
Helpful research in this area
comes actually from organizational behavior.
Specifically,what research in organizational behavior shows
is that healthy inter-group or intra-group conflict
is cognitive conflict rather than affective conflict.
Cognitive conflict is about focusing on the person's behavior,
or thoughts and ideas,and challenging those.
Unhealthy conflict is focusing on the person,on the emotions,
on who they are.
And when I attack someone for who they are-
the person,the emotion,that is not healthy-
not for a group,not for couples .
At the same time,
I can disagree with,can have conflict when it comes,
when we focus on the ideas,the thought and the behavior.
Let me show you an example.
Here is an example of focusing on the person.
You are so inconsiderate.
This is not the behavior; this is the person.
Focusing on the behavior:
do you mind putting down the toilet seat when you are done?
It may be as the result of the same thing-
you know,you didn't put the toilet seat down.
One response- you are so inconsiderate.
That's the person.versus the behavior.
Another example.You are such a slob.
You promised to throw away the garbage.
I can't trust you.That is an attack on the person.
Yeah I think so.
Versus it upsets me to return to a dirty home
after we agreed that you throw away the garbage.
Same event.
Very different approach,
very different results to these criticisms.
In addition to challenging behavior rather than person- sorry.
It is important to avoid hostility,insult and contempt.
00:59:59,960 --&gt; 01:00:04,
John Gottman talks about this a lot in his research.
And he says,one,he can predict divorce with 94 percent accuracy
as I mentioned last time.
Unheard of in the social sciences.
And he can do it based on whether he sees-
in the disagreements,in the conflicts
and he asks the partners to describe their conflict.
And very often they start fighting as he observes them.
When there is hostility,when there is contempt,
very often that is a bad sign- doesn't always lead to divorce.
Certainly not.But it is a bad sign.
It is a bad sign in terms of the long term likelihood of success,
but it's also a bad sign
in terms of the current enjoyment of the relationship.
So it is important to keep these insults away,
to focus on the person,to validate the person,
to appreciate the person,and then to disagree with the behavior
or with the ideas and the thinking.
The key is to keep these disputes private,meaning:
it is difficult enough to fight in a relationship;
it is extraordinary difficult
when embarrassment is also associated with it.
So couples who shout at one another when there are others.
Or when they show contempt,when other friends are there.
That is extremely destructive,extremely unhelpful.
So to keep these intimate moments
that can potentially lead to growth private.
Finally we can learn a lot from conflicts in gay couples.
As I mentioned last time,
John Gottman has studied gay couples a great deal.
And one of the interesting things that he found
was that they fight differently.
Now the interesting thing here-
it would not have been interesting if that was just between women
The interesting thing is that he found it also between men.
Because women generally are better at fights than men.
And there is actually a physiological reason for it.
There is a physiological reason
because men when they are attacked for example,
or they feel attacked or threatened,or disapproved of,
actually have a much more powerful,physiological response to it,
which is why men are more likely for example to switch off.
It's not just because they are men;
it 's because their real physiological differences there;
where a woman,for example,
who is criticized,will feel it- no on enjoys it.
But the men- again these are all average.
It doesn't mean all men or all women.
But on average,men will feel it in a much more intense way
and then will try to protect themselves.
And one of the ways of protecting ourselves is by switching off,
avoiding rather than coping.
Whereas women are much more comfortable
even on the physiological level-
I'm not talking about the interpretation of that physiology.
But on the physiological level,
they are much more comfortable handling and dealing
with this disease or discomfort of an argument.
So the first thing is to know it,
whether you are a man and you understand- I shouldn't switch.
I know I'm uncomfortable.It's part of my nature.I accept it.
And then you can cope rather than avoid.
Or with women,to have more empathy and understand that
their partner's experience is not the same as their experience.
But here is the interesting thing- in gay couples,men or women,
we see an enhanced,a better ability to disagree.
For example,how do they do it? First thing,
more positive,more humor,more affection,more touching,
whether it's the men or women.
And that helps to dissolve,
to relax some of the tension that exists.
Again,both for men and for women couples.
The negativity is less often taken personally.
So even if there is a serious disagreement- well,
I understand this is a part of growth.
This is important to keep in mind that
yes we may not be enjoying ourselves now.
It is a serious fight.
But what can I learn from it? what are we going to learn?
How are we going to grow?
Because I understand the conflict is a natural,inevitable,
important part of our relationship.
Gay couples do it more;
no reason why heterosexual couples can't do it more.
Simply by reminding.
And finally,there's more attention to the other side,
to calm down,to understand,to be empathic,
whether it's men or women.
To be empathic and understand and soothe.
And very often,just in a middle of conflict,
saying something like,you know "I'm sorry" or just a hug.
Or you know "it hurts me and I love you so much".
Just ways of soothing,
alleviating some of the pressure in the conflict.
Because conflicts are not easy.
Certainly not easy for gay couples either.
It's just being able to manage a conflict when it occurs.
Does not need to be peculiar to same sex relationships.
You know we talked about- we know the golden rule:
do not do unto others what you would not have done unto yourself.
We talked about the platinum rule:
do not do unto yourself what you would not do unto others,
when we talked about perfectionism and the permission to be human
So here is the Titanium rule: do not do unto those close to you
what you would not have done unto others who are not so close to you.
You know how often in the street or when you just met someone,
do you shout at them?
Or find other ways of showing contempt or insult?
Being aggressive or passively aggressive?
How many times do you do that to strangers?
I mean they really would have to do a terrible,
awful thing for you to express contempt,
or hostility,or anger toward them?
And yet on average,we do it so much more often-
again,not always,not everyone-
but so many people do it so often with people close to them,
whether it's family members,whether it's a very close friend,
whether it's romantic partners.
No justification for that.
Yes,it is also because we are more intimate with them,
because we feel more comfortable with them,but why?
Why treat others better
than we treat the people we love the most?
Why treat the people we love the most worse
than we would treat others?
There 's no justification.There can be conflict.
There will be conflicts.And it is important.
Question is how do you keep it on the cognitive behavior level
rather than the affective,emotional,contempt level?
And that can make all the differences.
Essentially what we are talking about here
when it comes to romantic relationships
is cultivating a deep meaningful friendship.
John Gottman: "At the heart of my program is the simple truth
that happy marriages are based on a deep friendship.
By this I mean a mutual respect for
and enjoyment of each other's company.
These couples tend to know each other intimately—
they are well versed in each other's likes,dislikes,
personality quirks,hopes,and dreams.
They have an abiding regard for each other
and express this fondness not just in the big ways,
but in little ways day in and day out."
Love is in the details.
It's about knowing the little things,the big things.
It is about sharing and being known.
That's what a healthy relationship is.And
that's how you can sustain passion in a relationship over years.
And that's how you can continue to enjoy a passionate,
sexual relationship,even though physiologically,
maybe initially the natural inclination would be toward novelty,
01:08:47,550 --&gt; 01:08:50,660
toward the "exotic is erotic".
It doesn't have to be that way.
It can be that way as well and that's natural.
And that can the fantasies that you share.
But ultimately for the long term relationship,
passionate relationship,to be known rather than to be validated.
Finally the fourth component of the healthy relationship-
I'll just touch it now
and we'll finish it up next week- positive perception.
In a relationship,a healthy relationship
the partners have to be the benefit finders.
They have to appreciate one another.
Because remember if we don't appreciate,the good depreciates.
If we don't appreciate what is working in a relationship,
pass the honeymoon phase,
the relationship will enter a downward spiral.
And unfortunately,that happens to most relationships.
Because we begin to take it for granted.
And if we take for granted a relationship,it withers and dies.
If we take for granted our own potential,
that potential withers and dies.
So benefit finding is important in a relationship.
To focus on the discipline of my partner
rather than on the rigidity.
To focus on their sense of humor
rather than look at it as frivolous.
Focusing on the good; focusing on what works.
And that is then accentuated.
However successful thriving couples take this step further.
They are not just benefit finders;
they have what Sandra Murray calls,positive illusions.
In other words,
they think of their partner more than other people think of them.
So the experiment that Sandra Murray did was the following:
she asked couples to evaluate one another's strengths
and then she asked other people
who are close to these two partners to evaluate their strengths.
And what she found was that couples who evaluated accurately,
meaning they evaluated their partner in the same way as others-
friends,family members evaluated them- they were OK.
They were OK together.
Couples who evaluated one another's strengths on a lower level,
meaning they didn't evaluate them as good,
as strong,as powerful,as virtuous- whatever it was-
as other people did,whether it's family or friends,
these relationships did not last for long on average.
Couples who evaluated each other at a higher level,
meaning as better than friends evaluated them,
as better than family evaluated them,
these couples' relationships were most likely to thrive
and succeed over time.
1184
And Sandra Murray called it- because
they were not connected to the evaluation of other people,
Sandra Murray called it "positive illusions".
Now- or another term used Brad Little used this term,
having an "illusory glow" about them,
seeing them as better than supposedly they really are.
Now I agree partially with Sandra Murray.
I agree with her that it is important to have these high,
more positive evaluations.
The one thing that I disagree with Murray
is on the use of the word illusion.
Because I don't think that is an illusion.
In fact,it is very real.
It is very real because it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.
And here I'm introducing a new term
in addition to benefit finding,benefit creating.
Seeing things that were not there
or the other people had not seen and then making it real.
And think about in another domain.
Was Marva Collins detached?
Did Marva Collins have positive illusions about her students?
Not at all.
I would argue the others,the other teachers were detached
because they didn't see that potential in their students.
Marva Collins was very much connected.
And she focused on the positive and created the benefits.
Abraham Maslow: "Not only does love perceive potentialities
but it also actualizes them."
Let me tell you a quick story about Tammy.
And as I mentioned to you,Tammy is a consummate merit finder.
In fact,she is a merit creator.
So this was at time when Tammy was 8 months pregnant.
Huge baby.Those of you who know David,he's a very big baby.
Like father,like son.
So this is 8 month pregnant
and Tammy takes me for one of those talks that
those of you in long term relationships know about.
And she says,"Tal,you know,this is getting really heavy.
This is really difficult for me and I just need your help more.
You just need to help me a little bit more in the house."
And I said to her,"fine."
I felt so sheepish and so inconsiderate.
And I said,"I'm sorry.Fine.So what can I do?"
And she said,"you know shopping this afternoon would help.
I just can't carry these bags any more."
So I went to the Star Market.Filled up the entire refrigerator.
Not only brought the things home,
but actually put them in the refrigerator.
Because I felt so guilty.
And Tammy saw that and she said
"you know thank you so much for doing it."
And I said to Tammy,
"Tammy,no,I'm really sorry that you had to tell me you know.
I should have done it without..."
And she said,"no no no no.This is what I love about you so much.
You are so considerate and you listen to me when I talk."
So I did the dishes too.
Again,benefit creating rather than only benefit finding
or focusing on what doesn't work.
I will not see you on Tuesday.
I'm away for,almost the whole week of passover.
But you'll gonna have a treat on Tuesday,
an amazing lecture by Shaun on humor.
I will see you.
[Cheers and laugh]
大家好 下午好 早上好
今天我们继续谈论爱情
讲之前先说一下 一位叫Nadia的同学
你的钥匙链落在这教室了
就在我这里
课后请来我这里取
那我们来讲讲爱情吧
上节课我们留下的问题多过答案
问题是…很难的问题
"我们怎样维持爱情
怎样在热恋期后维持激情"
因为即便我们觅得自己的布拉德皮特
或海利贝瑞 也不能确保激情长存
其实真正能确定的是
我们和那个人历经的生理上的兴奋
会慢慢淡去
这在一定程度上解释了几个数据
三分之二的婚姻以离婚告终
那些即便以后没有分开
也是出于省事
00:01:59,420 --&gt; 00:02:03,140
出于责任
而不是因为
曾经在一起时的那种激情
那种在恋情一开始时存在的
带着想要与之共度终生的
彼此承诺与对方长相厮守的美好夙愿
若问"幸福心理学能为我们做什么?"
这是对另一个问题的提问
另一个被问了很多年的问题
"为什么这么多恋情失败的例子"?
这问题很重要 很有必要问
这个问题涵盖面远远不够
但这个问题犯了一个错误
它有一个缺点 只问了消极的问题
当我们研究问题少年
时间管理与压力时 也犯了这样的错误
因为当我们只问了消极的问题时
我们就会看不到巴士上的孩子
这是一个比喻
我们就会看不到眼前真实的颜色
如果我们仅关注一个问题
"一共有多少几何形状?" 问题决定现实
很多时候 如果我们不问某个问题
某些答案就不会出来
所以我们来问这个问题
不仅问"怎样让恋情维系下去"
还要问"怎样让恋情美好下去"
如David Schnarch和John Gottman两位心理学家
在他们写的大作中
在他们的研究中 谈过这些方法特征
让我们来了解一下
第一个方法是努力
努力是世界上守得最好的秘诀 是成功的秘诀
是个人成功的秘诀 是感情成功的秘诀
成功没有捷径
若想让一段恋情一直美好
我们就得为之努力
这看起来似乎是不言而明的普遍常识
但在这个班上 我们经常体会到
正如伏尔泰所说"常识没那么寻常"
为什么要用常识来维持一段恋情时
却发现这样的常识不是人人都有?
这是因为
很多人对恋情有着错误的期望
或者确切的说 对美好的恋情有着错误的期望
大多数人认为拥有一段美好的
至死不渝的恋情的关键在于
寻找到真命天子
这确实重要
但是错在了将重点放在寻找上面
我们也套用一下Carol Dweck研究中的
固定心态和可塑心态的对比
人们有一种会破坏恋情的寻找心态
我来为大家解释一下
先回到春假前我们讲过的知识
Carol Dweck证明了
当人们获得游戏测试成绩后
我们赞赏他们"你真聪明"
这时他们就有了固定心态
相反 如果我们赞他们"你真努力"
他们就有了可塑心态 这两种心态都会产生影响
因为固定心态
即赞赏"你真聪明"帮不上什么
却在他们进入下一轮测试时
当测试变难 威胁到对自己的自我定位
"若做不出来
便说明我不聪明了" 这时他们便更容易放弃
他们更易被失败威胁到
他们也无法享受过程
他们变成了完美主义者
或者说更倾向于变成完美主义者
这就是固定心态
你真聪明 你的智商真高
而可塑心态 "你真努力"
我会努力做的
即便我没成功 没做好
我也照样能学习 能够更享受过程
这就是可塑心态
现在将这个理论运用到恋情上来
如果我认为拥有一段至死不渝的
幸福的恋情的最关键所在
寻找到真命天子
这里的寻找心态就相当于
Dweck提出的固定心态
假设我现在就有这种寻找心态
认为这是最重要的事
此时若我们的恋情经历一段艰难岁月
接下来会怎样呢?我会开始思索
"不对 我肯定是还未找到真命天子
我肯定弄错了 找错了对象"
这种心态常会让情况恶化
可能会导致恶性循环
这就是寻找心态
因为这种心态是固定的 我找到了白马王子
我找到了自己的女神 我的皮特我的贝瑞
问题是现实总是残酷的
我们无法脱离现实
现实证明完美的恋情根本不存在
记住Leo Buscaglia曾说过
"完美的爱情少之又少"
不 不是少 而是没有
当我们意识到
若我们有了寻找心态 这种固定心态
它会威胁到我们的自我认定
一有矛盾发生我们就开始琢磨
"估计我还没找到真命天子"
若我们反过来抱着培养心态 这种心态是可塑的
它与我们的努力相关 "好的
我们的感情碰到了困难
我们在经历困境
但不怕 因为我们在努力改善
我们在努力解决问题"
这就像那些被赞扬努力的学生 "好的
虽然我现在解决不了问题
但又怎样呢?我在努力
我在尝试 我甚至在享受这过程"
看这类比多么相似 Dweck研究的心态
和我们用在恋情上的心态
如此之重要 两种心态 结果相差甚远
很多时候我们是可以转变这心态的
不是马上可以变 但也不用太多时间
要知道Carol Dweck能靠一个
几小时的实验就将人们的心态转变
我们也能在对待恋情上转变心态
只要我们真正接受并内化一个事实
那就是在一段恋情中 找到真命天子
找到合适的人 当然重要
但培养一段感情更重要
这个一会再讲
但是问题接踵而来
为什么人们会有寻找心态呢?
如果培养心态更健康
为什么人们没有培养心态呢?
00:10:15,260 --&gt; 00:10:19,350
主要原因之一在于电影 现在的电影很精彩
电影很棒 向我们展现一切皆有可能
亚里士多德曾对小说发表如下看法
小说远重于历史
因为历史只是白描
而小说却将一切描述到了极致
所以说电影是很美好的
它让我们看到了可能性
尤其是浪漫的电影
这里的浪漫不是指爱情上的浪漫
是指18 19世纪的浪漫主义
向我们展示事物可以有多美好
潜在的人性 我们与世界的关系
这是件很美妙的事
但是电影有一点没做好
电影聚焦于找到真命天子
于是这就巩固加强了寻找心态
因为大多数电影
爱情故事总是这样的 有挣扎
有争吵 有意见相左
途中挑战不断
到最后
Smith夫妇走到了一起 从此幸福生活
荧幕落下 他们走向夕阳
你们知道这画面有什么问题吗?
问题就在于 爱情才刚开始 电影就结束了
荧幕落下后才要开始真正的努力
在刚开始时 要恋情顺利是很容易的
蜜月期
或者说一开始的一两年
但是这之后
当最初的肉体上 生理本能淡去
当我们开始意识到
我们的伴侣并不完美时会怎样?
会怎样?这就是爱情开始的时候了
这也是真爱得以培养并形成之际
我并不是贬损寻找
真命天子的重要性
这当然重要
通常找到王子前要亲无数只青蛙
但是对于一份美好而持久的恋情
培养更重要
这才是努力开始的地方
在日落之后 困难与险阻浮现
与寻找心态紧紧相连的
00:13:20,710 --&gt; 00:13:24,010
是真命天子只有一个这样的观念
我所需要做的就是
穷尽一生找到那个真命天子
如果得去耶鲁大学找
我也会愿意去
就像是莎翁悲剧的现代版
不论需要做什么 我都愿意做
只要能找到真命天子
即便我在波士顿 他们在西雅图
我总会找到真命天子
我不信这套 不现实
这不是信念的问题
我的意思是 很多人
觉得找到了真命天子
也许确实是找到了
却因为不幸的原因
或是为了正确的原因 没能继续下去
他们之后反而找到更多爱情
这世界上有60亿人口
真命天子绝非仅一个
那么是什么让恋情独特的呢?
不是找到真命天子
而是与你选择的恋人培养恋情
通过共同的努力 共同在一起
共同度过 彼此奉献
这是创造一段恋情的方式
一段独特的恋情
让两个"我"变成一个"我们"
再次重申 这不能在一夜间完成
甚至不能在一两年里完成 需要时间
事实上感情没有完成一说 这是一个过程
它无关恋情的成功
而是恋情的延续
恋情的培养不仅靠交换戒指
或是结婚誓言
而更要靠共同参与
这为什么很重要呢?
我们讲一下心理学其他领域的研究
我在其他场合曾提过几次
Muzafer Sherif在20世纪50年代
完成的伟大研究之一 在Muzafer Sherif之前
我之前说过了 人们有这样一个假说
当要解决人际冲突
或者群体间冲突时
人们认为此时的解决方法就是
让冲突双方聚在一起就行了
这个主流假说被称为"接触假说"
让冲突双方相接触
无论是族群冲突
还是个人间冲突
让他们聚在一起 冲突就能解决
这一理论主要由Gordon Allport提出
在20世纪30年代我们的心理学系
Muzafer Sherif出现后 指出这不行
事实上 仅让冲突双方聚首
254
让冲突双方接触
通常反而会激化矛盾 而非解决矛盾
我讲这个时 用阿以冲突作为例子
那里的人们聚在一起
希望能实现两国间的和平交往
但反而挑起了更多的战争 仅接触是不够的
不仅不适用于国家间冲突
不适用于族群间冲突
也不适用于夫妻间冲突
一段恋情中 发生冲突不可避免
这世上没有完美的恋情
即便有了完美恋情
也会有冲突的完美恋情
对此马上会为大家讲解到
我们的恋情会有冲突
不是在第一年里出现
就是在两三年后出现
而至于重大冲突 这里不是指
类似于"你怎么不放下马桶盖"
"把马桶盖掀起来"的冲突
当然马桶盖冲突也会变得很严重
但我指的是其他重大冲突
当这样的重大冲突出现时
一段关系中的双方只是聚在一起
相互接触
这不足以解决冲突
很多情况下 反而会由小冲突
转化为大冲突 冲突逐渐升级
Sherif对此有什么建议?我们研究出什么方法了?
解决冲突的要点之一
在于确立一个超然目标
当两个民族或国家共同努力
彼此互助
无论在公事上还是恋情上
例如共同抚养孩子 只要共同努力
不管属于同一个政治阵营
还是相对立的两个政治阵营 都可以
只要共同努力
彼此支持对方 当你们共同努力
共同参与时
才是你们可能解决冲突之时
我们很快就会看到这样的冲突
反而还能让恋情变得更加巩固
但情侣间需要共同的有意义的目标
再说一遍 可以是一起要个孩子
共同抚养
不是"我们有个孩子
由父亲或母亲抚养
通常会是母亲"这样
这样不算是共同努力了
孩子必须处于一种微妙的位置
用专业术语来说 孩子应是合资企业
用这个术语来比喻生孩子是不是很有爱?
只要他们不带来任何坏账
对他们的投资会带来很好的回报
非常适合的经济学术语
琢磨琢磨一下就往上套
共同做事 共同抚育孩子
或是共同参与竞选
或在工作上给对方帮助 但要共同为之
John Gottman说过"最稳固的婚姻里
丈夫与妻子彼此间深度融合
他们不只是一起生活
他们还支持彼此的愿望与抱负
为他们的生活融入共同的目标"
这不是说他们要什么都一起做
我的意思是
他或她可以在工作上有自己的目标
而他们并不一起工作 这完全没问题
但是必须要有他们共同做的事
换言之 我们需要的是主动的爱情
我第一次理解主动爱情的含义
还是通过Shahar给我讲的一个故事
他是我在以色列最好的朋友之一
我们过去是同班同学
不过他很早就结婚了
他二十出头就结了婚 很快有了儿子
他是一个非常善于自省
很诚实很正直的人
他告诉我 刚生儿子Noam时
当他的母亲与妻子带着Noam从医院回到家
Shahar并未感受到对Noam的爱
儿子很可爱 很招人喜欢
但他对儿子没有自己想象中
那么深爱
更别提他对此有多愧疚了
幸运的是这没有持续很久
因为自从Shahar开始照顾儿子
比如为他换尿布
大半夜起来给他喂奶
带他散步 给他擦洗身体
爱就这样培养出来了
平生第一次他感到了
父亲对儿子的爱
这感情不是自然而然便有的
对有些人是天生的 尤其是女性
但不是女生都是这样 总体来说高于男人
我们可以等着这感觉自然发生
也可以主动参与其中
表达我们的爱
还记得自我知觉理论吗?
我们总是以自己的行为为基础
形成自我的理论及信条
我们过去曾讲过的例子
如果我想象自己会去约会某人
即便她们说不 我也感到了自信
无论对方答不答应 我的自尊都会上升
若我想象自己能去演戏
我会感到自己是有勇气的
如果我感到自己
如果我照顾自己 我会感到自己
是自尊自爱 关心自己或关心她的人
这对孩子也是一样的
若我想象自己能照顾孩子
根据自我知觉理论 我会得出
"我一定很爱那孩子"的结论
这爱会随着时间而加深
无论是对孩子还是对伴侣
爱情开始时也许是自发感受到的
也许是一见钟情
尽管如此 若我们不主动维持爱情
长此以往 由于自我知觉理论
那份最初的激情会淡去
因为我们没在恋情中有所投入
自我知觉理论会告诉我们
"这恋情对我一定不怎么重要"
爱情慢慢淡去 更不必提
激情被时间冲刷掉的生理原因了
如果没有主动爱情 则恋情无以为继
我们怎样维持爱情?保持主动?
恋情老规矩 我们谈过老规矩
我跟你们讲过我和我妻子的老规矩
至少每周两次
与全家共进晚餐
一般每周会有三四次
但我们确有这些老规矩
因为在现代社会 若没有这些老规矩
用Steven Covey的话说是 重要却非紧急
重要却非紧急的活动就会被冷落
即便我们知道出去约会很重要
但不如刚接到的工作来电紧急
所以我不得不放弃约会 留下来加班 然而若有老规矩
不管遇到什么事都坚持老规矩 感情就得以维持
第二种维持爱情重要的途径是
做出改变
从想要被认可 到想要被了解
这个建议来自David Schnarch
出自他的书"充满激情的婚姻"
就是这个简单的建议
真正地改变了我与人们的关系
包括我与妻子的恋情
我与朋友的友情
与家人的亲情 甚至于师生情
这点在以前提过 再讲深一点
因为这对维持激情至关重要
对于维持友情 维持快乐
维持个人内心的 以及人与人间的快乐
这意味着什么呢?
什么叫被了解而非被认可呢?
首先 David Schnarch及其他心理学家
表明了 如果我们想在蜜月期后 在一见钟情后
仍然维持着激情
我们就得形成深层次的亲密关系
那些接受我们研究调查的伴侣
他们已共同生活了几十年
却依然有着充满激情的恋情
很不幸 这样的伴侣少之又少
但确实存在
他们的一生都在培养 并一直培养
而非花一生时间寻找亲密关系
你们知道怎样培养亲密关系吗?
通过逐渐了解对方
逐渐加深了解
通过理解对方
通过像了解自己一样了解对方
这意味着 我们若决心让对方了解自己
我们就必须打开心扉
我们必须吐露心声
这意味着我们得彼此分享
不只是那些在首次约会分享的
精彩美妙的事 当然也包括这些
但是除此以外
还包括一些让我们不怎么自豪的事
也许是我们的缺点
也许是我们耻于提及的
让我们觉得不舒服
不为人知的事情
这些事不会在首次约会上讲出来
这也不该在首次约会讲
很多情况下 甚至不会在五年十年内讲
只有经过长年累月的信任加增
逐渐坦露出来
有时我们坦露的是
自己都不知道的
被我们压抑了很久的事
但这需要时间
这也是要回到David Schnarch关于
脂肪团和性能力的言论上
这通常发生在10年20年30年后
这也是为什么到了五六十岁时
甚至会有比18 20 30岁时
更强的性能力
倒不是说18 20 30岁时不好
而是会比年轻时更好 为什么?
因为有了更深层的亲密联系
若我们理解了充满激情的关系的本质
这段关系就有很多东西值得我们期待
这不能仅靠"我们在一起
我找到了梦中情人 我们会幸福一生"
不是这样的 这有时是有风险的
意味着除了坦露我们内心深处的需求
我们最深的幻想
我们最厉害的长处 还有我们的缺点
我们的不安及痛苦
要坦露 要敞开心扉 就要做到这些
这意味着
一段健康的恋情 需要我们表达自己
而非长期抑制自己
这就是被了解与被认可的区别
被了解是要表达自己
被认可则是要取悦别人
这样做是有缺点
敞开心扉表达自己风险更高
因为若她不喜欢这样的我 怎么办?
如果他深入了解我后 不喜欢我怎么办?
但是要知道当我们表达自己时
我们更可能收获一段美好的恋情
但是没什么可以保证一定就有好恋情
这无法保证的
然而若我们一味抑制自己 失败是肯定的
原因如下
首先 当我们逐渐敞开心扉
也许短时间内没有效果 但是
随着时间的流逝 人们会被我们吸引
特别是我的伴侣会逐渐更喜欢我
因为我们有了深层次的亲密关系
即便有时他们对于刚了解的
关于我们的事不是很喜欢或赞赏
但久而久之 真诚的人
会吸引到其他人
而且 这种方法也适用于
人际关系领域
它适用于友情
适用于提高领导能力
像Peter Drucker阐述的那样
最伟大的领导不是最有魅力的
也不是最迷人的那些人
而是极其诚实正直的人
这样的领导
他的属下会长久追随他
无论是团体间的人际关系
还是个人之间的私交关系
只要我们坦诚 就更可能被容纳接受
第二件应该时刻谨记的是
如果我给人留下了一个很好的印象
使得这个人 或者这群人 都很喜欢我
这奏效了 我成功了
可这是真的吗?他们喜欢的是谁呢?
他们喜欢的是我还是那个形象
是我塑造的那个戴着面具的人吗?
换言之 他们喜欢的不是真正的我
也许看起来是 但那不是真的
这喜欢是假象 换言之 我失败了
而且这种假象也维持不了太久
所以说坦诚相待更可能持久
而当我们的目标是给人留下一个好印象时
这种情形持久的可能性为零
这并不是要你在第一次约会
就放弃尝试给对方留下深刻印象
我是说我还没见过谁没尝试过
在首次甚至第十次约会 乃至第十次约会
给对方留下深刻印象 这是可以的
然而 共同生活最重要的动因是什么?
就像我们前面说的那样 敞开心扉
我们还需要积极努力
去了解我们的伴侣 去了解他们爱喝的红酒
喜欢的花
他们喜欢哪里被咯吱 哪里喜欢被触碰
他们怕什么 渴望什么
什么时候该给他们一些独处的空间
534
什么时候该和他们沟通
什么时候该触碰他们
所有这些都需要时间
这不可能在首次约会时实现
也不会在第一年里实现
不会在头10年或30年全部实现
这意味着我们要用一生的时间
去了解对方 营造一生的美好恋情
我的祖父祖母
是我在感情方面的榜样
他们在一起50年后 还在继续了解对方
他们的感情很好
他们的感情还没圆满 而是正在圆满
David Schnarch说过
"亲密就是让你自己被真正的了解
即使是你或你伴侣不喜欢的 也要被了解
但这并不代表坦露的都是缺点
有时也会是一直没发现的优点
大部分方法
都专注于让你的伴侣 在你坦露时
认同和接受你
但你不能寄希望于此 如果你心存这样的意图
那么你坦露心声时必然有所掣肘
因你只会说那些让你的伴侣认可的话
打破僵局需要亲密关系
这基于认可你自己"
大多数婚姻咨询师 性治疗师认为
一段恋情中最重要的
一段健康长久的恋情中最重要的是
伴侣间彼此认可
这很重要
我当然想被对方认可
我当然认可我的伴侣
然而这不是健康恋情的基础
而这是很多治疗师
很多夫妻以及我曾犯过的错误
没有认识到被了解才是基础
无论是在一段恋情中
还是与朋友的友情中
当你坦露心声时
你是冒着风险的
而且很多时候
这会引发冲突 破坏感情
然而通常 几率不是特别高
但通常 这只是短暂的破坏
另一方面
若你长期坦诚 敞开胸怀
这会引领你走向长久的感情
对恋情是有积极效果的
一方面来看 你坦诚时
肯定会觉得不舒服
舒服的话也就不难了
也就不算真正的坦诚
短期来看这是很难的
但从长远看 它能助长感情
关键在于你想要什么?
要短暂的舒服感觉?
你被认可了 你很棒
我来让你看看我有多优秀
因为被认可的感觉很好
还是你想要一段长久而美好的
友情或是恋情?
这是个问题
接下来的话我几个月前就讲过
现在我想再重申一次
我是怎样改变与学生的关系的
怎样转变我的教学方式
因为最初教学时 我的主要目标是
不管讲得是否清楚明白 当时确实很清楚
但潜意识里最主要是想被认可
我真的很想让我的学生喜欢我
那是我的主要目标
慢慢的 看了很多人的著作
尤其是David Schnarch的书
还有Parker Palmer的"教学的勇气"
609
我的目标变为了被了解
这是我现在的咒语了
每天上讲台前
我天天想着并念着我的咒语
其实这就写在我的笔记本第一页
这些是我的笔记 我的小抄
第一行字就是"被了解" 每天都是
被了解而非被认可
这改变了我与学生的关系
以及教学方式 原因有下
首先,老是想着
"我得让给他们觉得我很厉害 无论是对于我的伴侣
还是一千个学生" 压力太大了
这样很难 带给我太多压力了
而若是站在这里说
"我想让我的学生更了解我"就简单多了
这也意味着要了解
那个我非常喜欢和关心的领域
我想要他们的了解 这让我觉得轻松
当我想被Tammy了解 而不是让她有个好印象
让她认可我时 我觉得和她在一起
轻松多了
这是第一个要点
长期想取悦别人的缺点是
若我们带着面具 且不断不断地试着
让自己被认可 看起来很完美
以便让学生喜欢我认可我
但这样做的同时也伤害到了学生
因为若我擅于演戏伪装
扮演一个完美老师的角色
我就变成一个很差劲的榜样
久而久之会伤害到学生
因为那个完美的我并不存在
如果有人想向这个完美的形象看齐
无论是感情中还是在个人问题上
都不可避免地通往完美主义
也是通往失败与不幸
除非我是想被了解
也就是说我的缺点 我的失败之处
不管是在剑桥还是在哈佛的失败
或是我的焦虑 你们会见到真实的我
或是犯错误 你们见到的是真实的我
这样的我是一个更好的老师
相较于那个完美形象 更平易近人
好过那个被认可的我
除此以外 这样的我也更快乐
因为我在这里与你们分享
我在分享自己的一部分内心世界
我与大家分享的
是我非常喜欢和关心的
被了解而非被认可
说起容易做来难
但是利大于弊 尤其是长远来看
好处远远大于弊处
第三点是要允许恋情中出现冲突
关于健康恋情的一个误解是
健康恋情没有冲突 没有争吵
五星级的恋情不会发生冲突
这是一个很严重的误解
John Gottman曾对此做过很多研究
他得出的结论之一是
不存在所谓唯一的标准恋情
这也意味着每段恋情看起来都不同
无论外人看来 还是自己看
有一些恋情美好而安宁
有一些恋情则美好却激烈
两种都可持续下去
恋情没有统一的正确形式
恋情可以有无数种模式及不同之处
但健康恋情都有一个共同之处
Gottman发现的一个共同之处
那就是在所有的恋情中
无论是激烈的还是非常平和安宁的
或是两者兼之的恋情 都有争执
而且平均来看 只是平均来看
因为有些人可能是10:
有些人可能是3:
但是平均来看
每5次积极互动就会有一次争执
这并不是让你回家去和伴侣说
"我们已经有了7次积极互动了
现在该吵架了"
绝不是这样 但这是他研究发现的
当他研究了成百上千的和睦夫妻后
差不多这是
积极互动与争执冲突的平均比率
这个数据启发到我
因为过去只要Tammy和我发生争吵
我们也会争吵 我就会说"这是怎么了?"
而不是说"这很正常 不用担心
看看该怎么解决这冲突
从中学到些什么 怎样改进"
这并不是说我喜欢冲突
冲突不好 有时很伤感情
但同时要理解到这是正常的
就像我们允许自己
有个人的不足之处一样
我们要允许我们的关系
存在不足 这是很重要的
那些实现了5:1比率的人们
基本上都有一段美好恋情
而那些低于此比率 如100比1的
这样的感情并不能长久地美好下去
那些冲突多于积极互动的伴侣也维持不下去
完全不吵不好 经常吵也不好
冲突的重要性在于它使我们免疫
先来看自然或生理上的免疫
若把一个出生的婴儿放入消过毒的
储氧箱 而不把他抱出来
这个孩子会怎样呢?
比如说两三年甚至十年后
孩子长大了 离开洁净的环境
回到真实的世界生活 他会怎样呢?
他很有可能会生病
且很可能是重病
为什么?因为在无菌环境里生长
就生理上说是不健康的
因为每次你生病
或是每次你暴露于污染与细菌中
你的身体都会因为产生抗体而变强
这对恋情也是同样的道理
如果你的恋情从不发生冲突
久而久之 恋情无法得到巩固加强
你会变得脆弱 当冲突无可避免时
恋情就会难以维持
所以说冲突使我们免疫 这很重要
再谈一下冲突的种类与形式
因为不是每种冲突都有益
Gottman说过关键不在于
消除负面的东西
而是要强调巩固积极的东西
所以对于那些不成功的恋情
那些经常发生争吵的恋情
像这样的恋情
强调积极方面
而若是处于这种无冲突恋情
很可能你们在压抑 压抑感受 分歧
换言之 我们没被了解 我们需要改进
坦诚 敞开心扉 彼此分享
这里有几种强调积极方面
大家记得那本"更幸福"的书
我讲过的关于幸福助力器
有一些细小的事情
可以是几分钟也可以是几小时的事
能让我们快乐 也很有意义
就像我们借助幸福助力器
滴水穿石地提高我们一辈子的幸福感
我们也可以借助爱情助力器
有一个关于爱因斯坦与Ludwig van der Rohe的故事
Ludwig van der Rohe是量子物理学的创始人之一
Ludwig van der Rohe写信给爱因斯坦
说"我想你进入量子物理
这个神奇而美妙的新领域
我需要您的支持"
爱因斯坦当时颇有声望
他回了一封信
信里对Ludwig van der Rohe说
"我对量子物理不感兴趣
因为我对细节上的东西不感兴趣
我感兴趣的是上帝在创造世界时
他在想着什么
我对细节没兴趣
我只关心上帝创造世界时的
他在想着什么"
Ludwig van der Rohe回信说
"上帝就在细节中"
爱情也是这样 爱情就在细节中
爱情不在一周或一个月的
环游世界中
爱情不在五克拉的钻戒里
这些东西是很美妙
也确实激发了幸福感
有时甚至激发了爱情
但它们不能维持一段美好的感情
能够长期维持幸福恋情的是细节
是那些微小的事情
是每天的生活常规 触碰 凝视 共进晚餐
迷你爱情助力器也能维持
这是我从Peter Fraenkel学来的
他是纽约Ackerman家庭服务中心的
他讲的是一天里的
30秒钟的幸福点
无论是一个激吻
或只是一个单纯的拥抱
或是发给伴侣的一条短信
告诉他们你有多爱他们多想他们这类小事
他们发现
正是这些小事产生重大影响
当然 大事也能产生影响
我不是贬低大事 但那只能导致激变
而维持幸福需要长久的努力
需要奉献
感情的维系主要是靠
注重这些日常琐碎的小事
我们怎么做到呢?我们表现出我们的关心
我们问"你今天过得怎样?"
或"讲讲你刚做了什么"
或"你在想什么"
或"你不太高兴啊 我能做什么"
表现出关心 画爱情地图
去了解对方 他喜欢什么
不喜欢什么 有多喜欢
就是那些小事 比如触碰
微笑 送花
记得重要的日子
现在这些简单多了
我们有电脑提醒我们
就我个人经验来讲
称赞 称赞对方
不要以为一切都是理所应当的
记得我们讲过感激 两个意思
其中之一就是称赞某人 "你看来棒极了"
这太好了 谢谢你做这些
谢谢你想到我
带有感激的赞赏是最好的感激
当我们不懂得感激与赞赏时
美好会贬值 马克吐温说过
"一个好的赞赏能让我高兴两个月"
不要只理解了他的字面意思
给你们讲个故事
这是我的岳父与岳母的故事
我的岳父毕业于哈佛法学院
很聪明很有才华 他叫Amie
娶了一位可爱的女人Rachel Rahel(希伯来语发音)
有一次他们约会
Rachel穿了件很美的裙子
他们去参加一个派对 整晚都在那里
派对上人很多 那是一个美妙的夜晚
派对结束后他们回到家
Rachel问Amie
"Amie 今晚整个晚上
我得到了无数赞美 说我很漂亮
说我裙子很美 很容光焕发
大家都赞美我 却惟独你没有"
要知道Amie是哈佛法学毕业生
非常聪明 反应灵敏
他是以色列的一流律师 他说道
"Rahel 你还记得几个月前
我告诉你 你有多美丽动人吗?"
她说"我当然记得"
00:51:40,570 --&gt; 00:51:44,400
他说"直到另行通知前 你都那么美丽动人"
这句话几乎能过关了
问题是Rachel也是个律师
同样聪明同样成功
她对她说
"Amie 直到另行通知前 你都睡沙发"
所以不要等别人开口 你才赞美他们
主动赞美 又不花钱
然而虽不花钱
但它的价值却是不可估量的
因为它令我们获益甚多
赞美与被赞美的人都获益
最能预测一段治疗关系是否成功
最能预测一个治疗师
心理学家 社工是否成功的 是移情
你有多理解多同情
多认同你的客户
在恋情中也一样
我真的在聆听我的伴侣吗?我真的在看我的伴侣吗?
我真的对我伴侣做的事
表现出真诚的关心吗?他们好吗?
我真的想要了解他们吗?
因为如果不是这样
要维持长久美好的恋情是很难的
最后 性在长久美好恋情中很重要
性不一定要在婚前发生
或者等到彼此承诺厮守一生才发生性关系
这厮守可以是结婚也可以不是
可以是婚姻 在现实生活中也经常是婚姻
是不是结婚都行
然而 对于长期恋情的成功延续
生理方面也很重要
极少的情况下 也存在
也存在极少的恋情
是没有生理方面的因素的
生理因素是区分爱与深厚友情的
一个显著特征
爱情 准确地说 性的至高点使爱具体化
使爱具体化
这也是为什么我们会说做爱
它是感情 是抽象的爱的具体化
生理方面很重要的一点是
健康的交流 就像别的感情一样
因为我们经常坦露自己 分享自己
在卧室远多过在其他地方
无论是肉体上 还是情感上 还是认知上
那是我们敞开心怀的地方
那是我们真正赤裸相对的地方
交流是很重要的
因为人与人的期望值是不同的
这也没什么统一的规定
一周5次性生活 最好的恋情
三次 不错 一次 合格
不 有很多美妙的恋情
一天一次或一个月二次 对不起 或者一星期一次
有一些美妙的恋情
或是一天三次
不 对此没有统一的规定
不知道我刚才说的哪句好笑
不过我课后会看一下的
因为我相信佛洛依德现在一定也在看着
最重要的是交流
因为它是冲突的根源
是冲突的潜在根源
并不必一定如此
来看一段短视频
注意力从我这里转移开一下
这是伍迪艾伦的影片
[电影：安妮霍尔(1977)-屏幕上字幕]
我记得对上一次开心的时候
是在布鲁克林的那天
我们再也不敞怀大笑了
我一直情绪低落 欲求不满了
你们多久做爱一次?性生活频繁吗?
很少 一周三次吧
经常做 一周三次吧
前几天晚上 Alvy想做爱
前几天晚上她不想和我睡 你知道吗?
我不知道
如果是六个月前 为让他开心我会做
我什么都试过了
放轻音乐 浅红色的灯光
但是自从我们来这里讨论后
我觉得我有权顾及自己的感受
我觉得你听到这个会高兴
因为我真的能坚持自我了
最讽刺的是
我出钱让她看心理医生 她有改善了
我却更糟糕了
我不知道
我觉得好内疚 因为Alvy出钱让我来看
所以不和他上床 让我内疚
但要是真的和他上床
感觉像是我不顾及自己的感受
我没有进展 我赢不了
有时我觉得我该找个女人住
"很少 一周三次"
"经常做 一周三次" 不同看法
沟通很重要 不是所有的冲突都是好的
冲突有积极的有消极的
对这个问题的有用研究
其实主要来自组织行为
确切的说 组织行为研究表明
健康的组织内或组织外冲突
是认知冲突 而非情感冲突
认知冲突针对人的行为
或思想 观念 对这些提出质疑
不健康的冲突 注重于人 情感
他们自身
而当我攻击某人自身
那个人本身及情感时 这是不健康的
无论是组织 还是夫妻
与此同时
当针对观念 想法 行为时
我可以不赞同 可以发生争执
举例来说
这是一个针对人自身的例子
你不体谅别人
这不是针对行为的 而是针对人的
而针对行为的是
你用完马桶后把坐垫放下来好吗?
这两句话可能是由同一件事引发的
就是你没把马桶坐垫放下来
一个反应是 "你不体谅别人"
这就是针对人和针对行为的例子
974
另一个例子 "你这个懒鬼
答应了要扔垃圾的
我不能信任你了" 这是针对个人了
我觉得是这样的
与之相对的是"你说过要扔垃圾却没有做到
让我回家就看到乱糟糟 很恼火"
一样的事
不同的态度
这两种评价带来的后果也不同
除了质疑行为而非个人以外…抱歉
尽量避免恶意 侮辱及蔑视
00:59:59,960 --&gt; 01:00:04,
John Gottman在其研究中多次提及
他说自己预言离婚有94%的准确度
就像我上次提到的那样
在社会科学中从没有过这么高的准确度
他判断的根据是
是否在争吵和冲突中看到…
他让夫妻描述他们的冲突
通常他们在他的观察下开始争执
当出现恶意及蔑视
通常是坏的预示 但不总是导致离婚
绝对不是 但确实是坏的预示
这不仅是在感情能否长期维持的坏预示
这还是在享受
现有恋情方面的坏预示
所以有必要避免这种侮辱的发生
避免针对人身 认可本人
尽量赞赏对方 仅对其行为
或是其想法观念不苟同
还有很关键的一点是 私下才争吵 意思是说
本来恋情中的争吵就很不好
若是再引来尴尬羞愧
就更糟糕了
所以夫妻在有外人时 吼叫对方
或者有朋友在场时 轻视对方
这是非常具有破坏力的 极其危险的
所以让争吵私下化
能潜在的让私密关系好起来
最后 我们能从同性恋情中学到很多
像我上次提到的那样
John Gottman研究了很多同性恋情侣
他发现了一件很有趣的事情
他们争吵起来很独特
有趣的地方在于
若是两个女人争吵　那没什么新奇的
有意思的是 这也发生在男同性恋间
因为女人通常比男人擅于争执
也确实有生理上的原因
这是有生理上的原因
举例来说 男人受到言论攻击时
或觉得别人在攻击 威胁 或不赞同他们时
他们其实会有更强烈的生理反应
这也是为什么男人通常吵着吵着就不吵了
这不仅是因为他们是男人
这是因为有生理上的差异
而女人 举例来说
被批评时 虽不会喜欢
但相对于男人…这是普遍来说
并不是指所有男女
普遍来说 男人对此更紧张
他们会想要保护自己
而方法之一就是不跟你吵了
逃避 而不是应对
而女人对争吵更适应
甚至是生理上的更适应
我不是说心理所反映的生理感受
而是说单纯的生理层面上
女人更善于处理应对
这种争执的弊端及不适
所以首先要知道的是
无论你是否是男人 你要明白你不该逃避
我知道我不舒服 这是天生的 要接受
接着你便能处理 而非避免
而女人 要明白
她们的伴侣与自己的感触不同
但这里有意思的是 在同性恋情中
男女同性恋 都能更好应对分歧
他们怎么做呢? 第一
更积极 更幽默 更多爱意与触碰
无论是男的还是女的同性恋者
这对解决分歧很有帮助
能够缓解紧张的气氛
男女同性恋者都是
人身攻击的情况较少
所以即使有了严重分歧
我理解这是感情成长的一部分
记住这点很重要
这一刻我们的确不喜欢
这是严重的争执
但我能学到什么?我们要学什么?
我们怎样成长?
因为我明白 冲突是正常 不可避免的
这是我们恋情中的一部分
同性恋情侣都能做到
异性恋情侣没理由做不到
只要这么想想就行了
最后 要多关心对方
冷静下来 理解对方的感受
无论男女
要设身处地理解对方 让对方平静下来
通常 就在争执中
说一些"我很抱歉" 或是一个拥抱
或"我很受伤也很爱你"
这些方法都能让对方平静下来
减缓冲突带来的压力
因为冲突不是好事
对同性恋情侣当然也不易
只是他们能应对得好一些
并不只是同性情侣才懂得处理冲突
我们讲过 黄金法则
己所不欲 勿施于人
我们讲过白金法则
人所不欲 勿施于自
这是我们讲完美主义 和允许自己有不足时讲过的
然后是钛规则 你不会对泛泛之交做的事
也千万不要对你亲密的人做
有多大的可能你会对
陌生人或刚认识的人大吼?
鄙视他们 侮辱他们?
挑衅别人?
你对陌生人做过几次这种事?
他们一定是对你做了极糟糕的事
才让你表示出如此恶意轻视
对他们大发雷霆
然而平均下来 我们常常
虽然不是人人都经常这样
但是确有很多人这样对亲近的人
无论是家人还是亲密的朋友
还是爱人
没有理由这样做
没错 是因为我们与他们更亲近
因为和他们一起更舒适 但是为什么呢?
为什么对外人
比对我们最爱的人反而要好?
为什么对所爱之人
比对不相干的人要差?
这无理可循 可以有争执
会有争执 且争执很重要
问题是你怎样将其保持在认知行为上
而非情感的 感情的 蔑视的层面?
这会导致极大的不同
我们讲了这么多内容
在一段恋情中 最重要的
是培养一份深厚的友情
John Gottman说"我的方法的核心是一个简单的真理
即幸福的婚姻基于深厚的友情之上
这句话意味尊重对方
享受与对方的相处
这些情侣能深入了解对方
他们熟知对方的喜恶
性格怪癖 理想与梦想
他们对彼此有着持久的尊敬
不仅在大的问题上表达喜爱之情
也在日常琐碎间表达出来"
爱情就在于细节
在于事无巨细的了解
在于分享与被了解
这就是健康的恋情
这就是你如何让恋情维持激情数年
这就是你如何持续享受激情
性关系 虽然在生理方面
一开始会很自然地倾向于新鲜体验
"新鲜的才是激情的"
但不一定就要这样
当然可以是这样 这很自然
可以用双方的幻想来体验一下新鲜
但是对于长久的恋情
充满激情的恋情 最根本的是要被了解而非被认可
最后 关于健康恋情的第四点
我现在先提一点
然后在下周再讲完 积极认知
在一段恋情中 一段健康的恋情中
伴侣一定要做优点感知者
他们要赞赏对方
要记住若不懂赞赏对方 美好会贬值
如果我们不感激这段恋情中顺利的地方
过了蜜月期后
恋情会急转直下
不幸的是 这种情形常发生
因为我们开始把好的东西视为理所当然
而当我们这么做时 恋情就会消逝
若我们将自己的潜力看做理所应当
那潜力会衰减乃至消亡
所以说优点感知 对一段恋情很重要
欣赏伴侣的自律
而不是把自律看成固执
欣赏伴侣的幽默感
而不是把幽默看成耍滑头
把注意力放在优点上 放在顺利的地方上
这些优点就会加强
然而成功的幸福伴侣做得更好
他们不仅是优点感知者
他们还有Sandra Murray所说的积极错觉
换言之
他们认为伴侣要比别人眼中还要好
Sandra Murray做的实验如下
她让情侣们评价另一半的优点
然后她再去叫那些
与他们相熟的人们 评价他们的优点
她发现那些准确地评价对方的情侣
也就是与朋友家人的评价差不多的
他们的感情还算说得过去
他们在一起过得凑和
那些对伴侣优点评价得比别人还差的
也就是他们对彼此的评价不如
外人所认为的那么优秀 强大等
不管是来自朋友还是家人的评价
这些恋情一般持续不了很久
而那些对彼此的评价
要高于其朋友 或家人
给予的评价的情侣
这些情侣的恋情最可能
持续且美好下去
这部分人 Sandra Murray将其称为
因为他们对彼此的评价与外界不符
Sandra Murray将其称为"积极错觉"
或按Brad Little的说法是
他们有着"虚幻的光辉"
认为彼此远比实际上要好
我部分同意Sandra Murray的观点
我同意她说的 对伴侣有积极的评价
是很重要的
但我不同意她的是
对于错觉这一词汇的运用
因为我认为这不是错觉
事实上 这是真实的
因为这成为一个自我实现的预言
在这里我引进一个新的术语
除了优点感知 还有优点创造
看到不存在的优点 或是
别人没看到的优点并让其成为现实
想想教育界里的一个例子
Marva Collins脱离实际了吗?
Marva Collins对她的学生有积极错觉了吗?
完全不是
我认为 是其他老师脱离切实了
因为他们没有看到学生身上的潜力
Marva Collins非常切合实际
她关注于积极方面 并创造优点
Abraham Maslow说过"爱不仅能感知潜力
而且还让其转换为现实"
给你们讲个Tammy的小故事
如我所说 Tammy是个完美的优点感知者
事实上 她是个优点创造者
这事发生在Tammy怀孕8个月的时候
胎儿很大了 你们都见过David了 大宝宝
虎父无犬子
所以在怀孕8个月时
Tammy和我有过一段交谈
你们谈过很久恋爱的人就会明白这谈话是怎样的了
她说"Tal 他变得越来越沉了
这真的对我很难 我需要你更多帮助
你需要在家帮我一点小忙"
我说"好的"
我感到很窘迫 觉得自己很不体贴
我说"抱歉 我能做什么?"
她说"你可以今天下午去帮我买东西
我再也拿不动那些大包小包了"
于是我去了超市 把冰箱塞满了
不仅是买回家
还把它们放进冰箱
因为我觉得很内疚
Tammy看到后说
"太感谢你做的这一切了"
我对Tammy说
"不 我很抱歉要你开口我才做
我早该做了"
她说"不 我就是爱你这一点
你如此体贴 肯仔细聆听我"
于是我又把盘子洗了
创造优点 而非单纯感知优点
而不是专注于不顺利的地方
周二就不来给你们上课了
我有一整周来不了 过逾越节
但你们周二还要来上课
Shaun带来的关于幽默的精彩演讲
下节课见



</p>